all right hi I'm a Danish Bowman and
we'll talk a little bit about some of
the DHT improvements and got a good pass
0.5 so overall we've got four things are
gonna look at one is the way in which
the auto not service that Steven
mentioned briefly is utilized by default
in the DHT second is how we've cleaned
up our routing tables but third is the
lookup algorithm how you find stuff and
how that's been improved and then
finally a little bit of the testing and
how we sort of made sure that things are
gonna look good on the network so Auto
not cleaning up the DHT we have this
Kadhim lea network which is the
algorithm that I can just uses for its
distributed hash table where you
basically just ask questions like do you
you know do you have the data X or do
you know someone who has it but what
happens when you cannot ask some of the
people who are told given to you as
responses you know you're you're told
about ten peers you go talk to them but
six of them are unavailable the the
network structure starts to degrade and
the like mathematical properties that
allow for sort of logarithmic lookup
times start to fall apart
so the plan is you ask other peers if
they think your dialable and you sort of
collect that information and if you
decide that you after you know
interpreting all the results from your
peers are not dialable then you stop
telling people that you are part of the
DHT routing layer that you're a server
you are available to respond to queries
because you're not you're unavailable we
also have sort of a back-up plan which
is there where you will defensively look
at connections that come in and see does
this look like a does this look like a
pure that other people can talk to
they have a publicly diable address or
all of their IP addresses look like
localhost or you know one 92168 types of
addresses all right so we've cleaned out
a lot of our routing tables but now
we've gotten rid of the bad guys how do
we make sure to keep some of the good
guys
in there before we were trying to be a
little defensive with our routing tables
because there were so many inviolable
nodes we said let's try and shave off
some of the unviable if we only ever
keep people around who were connected to
then we're guaranteed that when we hear
about appear from someone that they're
not offline because they're in the
middle of being connected to someone
else this is nice but what happens if
your router blips and you lose all your
connections now you're gonna have to
start like you're gonna have to like
reset up you're DHT from scratch from
the bootstrappers again which is very
unfortunate what if your machine is just
overloaded you have you know a thousand
really important and valuable bits for
connections or other application layer
things and so there your DHT connections
keep getting killed because they're just
less valuable to your application
overall you still know where these peers
are you can still ask them questions the
fact that you can't maintain a
connection to them because you're out of
resources doesn't mean you should forget
them and so now we only remove peers
from our routing table if we've they
failed us we've either ask them a
question and they've failed or they've
been around a while and every time we
ask them a question they just don't give
us the responses we need and we find
someone better who might give a response
in time so
look about your than the thing that sort
of you tend to look at is the culprit of
is this faster slow even though
frequently it's the other two layers
this the routing layer and then the
whole substrate appears underneath
that's problematic
all right who do we ask
so again cadet Malia you just keep
asking do you know anyone closer than X
and that's like the question you just
keep on asking previously with these
routing tables full of bad peers because
the lack of auto net integration and the
fact that we were you know losing peers
because of you know you know
intermittent disconnects or dropping
connections will make things take a long
time both because of the failed dials
but also because the lookup algorithm
needed to compensate for a lack of
confidence in the like mathematical
structure of the routing tables and as a
result we had to search more of the
network we couldn't say oh we think
we're close because there might have
been some one that was much closer but
now because the the structure looks not
like looks cleaner and is more stable we
can give up much earlier we can ask we
can find the three closest peers in the
network to the piece of data that we're
looking for the three people three of
the twenty people that are supposed to
have copies of what we're looking for
and that's enough because we should know
there should not be any one any closer
that we didn't know about because the
structure of Kedah Malia is such that
everyone should know the peers that are
closest to them and we can now trust
that all right so testing let's let's
see how this thing works
so another before we go into this is
that the tests were done on this on test
ground right which is very helpful but
also an isolated Network not gonna have
all the same conditions the real Network
I'm not going to simulate all the
conditions of a real Network you know a
couple of the big things at play where
we set all the latencies to be about 100
milliseconds for round-trip times and
and we could also control you know but
we could control the network to say like
what percentage in nose look dial a bowl
or undoubtable and this is what it looks
like this is how long it takes to
Aizen tells someone that you have a
piece of data and you can see that the
differences are enormous the one side is
what it would look like if the entire
network was 0 for 23 and the right side
is how long would take it the entire
network was 0.5 again this has the 100
millisecond latency z' and other sorts
of assumptions built in but the
discrepancy is really large
in particular the 95th percentile are
very big because when the routing
structure is a little bit off you can
sort of get lost in the network and now
you won't this is effectively how
finding the first provider this is how
long it takes for you to start
downloading data with bits law and
that's gotten faster but not quite as
fast as that and then finally I pianist
get x which were also quite slow as you
can see much slower than the IP FS x and
those have gotten a lot faster too all
right
that's been a crash course to what we've
been up to with the HT improvements and
anyone has any questions they've got a
little bit of time